Fmd 749 cadet guide changes (#16)
ministryofjustice/find-moj-data-user-guide: source/documentation/ingestion/cadet-registration.md

# Adding tables to Find MoJ data from Create a Derived Table (CaDeT)

Find MoJ data uses the [Create a Derived Table](https://github.com/moj-analytical-services/create-a-derived-table) service (CaDeT) as a source of metadata about the Analytical Platform. CaDeT uses a python package called [dbt](https://www.getdbt.com/product/what-is-dbt).

By default, all models and sources will be ingested into the Datahub catalogue, but they will not be shown in the Find MoJ data service.

> ## Make a model or source visible

Reviewer: We may want to split this by model and source, since sources can't be added to `dbt_project.yml` - you need to edit the property file instead

> To make a model or source visible in Find MoJ data, set the `dc_display_in_catalogue` tag to that model. [Config of CaDeT models is described in their documentation here.](https://user-guidance.analytical-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/tools/create-a-derived-table/models/#where-can-i-define-configs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make a model or source visible in Find MoJ data, add the `dc_display_in_catalogue` tag to it. [Config of CaDeT models is described in their documentation here.](https://user-guidance.analytical-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/tools/create-a-derived-table/models/#where-can-i-define-configs)
```

For example, in `dbt_project.yaml` you can include

```yaml
models:
  courts:
    some_subdirectory:
      common_platform_derived:
        +tags:
          - dc_display_in_catalogue
```

> 

Reviewer: I'll need to add another example here for sources

This tag should be used for sources and derived tables that users are expected to work with directly. Don't add it to intermediate/staging tables.

## Set required metadata

> When adding new entities to the catalgoue, we require that you specify some additional metadata in DBT. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding new entities to the catalgoue, we require that you specify some additional metadata in DBT. For example, in `dbt_project.yml`:
```

| dc_owner_id           | The Datahub user ID for the [data owner](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/essential-shared-data-assets-and-data-ownership-in-government/data-ownership-in-government-html#data-owner-2), usually in the form FirstName.LastName. This is the senior individual accountable for the data, _not_ a data custodian. This is not the same as the DBT owner. | `Joe.Bloggs`                                          |

## Additional metadata

| field name                 | description                                                                                                                                                  | example            |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |

> | dc_where_to_access_dataset | An enum representing how the data can be accessed by end users, eg ["AnalyticalPlatform", "CourtsAPI"]. For DBT, this always defaults to AnalyticalPlatform. | AnalyticalPlatform |

Author: ```suggestion
| dc_where_to_access_dataset | An enum representing how the data can be accessed by end users, eg a choice of ["AnalyticalPlatform", "CourtsAPI"]. For DBT, this always defaults to AnalyticalPlatform. | AnalyticalPlatform |
```
